README.md, before:

# User Intent resolution via maximal entropy minimisation

Note: Current implementation in the `main.py` involves the simples solution to each module below i could think of. The solution i envisioned consists of more complex modules and I will be updating them itteratively.

## Objective

Given a prompt to an AI agent, "Can you contact Mike?" the action the agent should take—"contact via email" or "contact via WhatsApp"—is unclear. Such a user prompt contains an insufficient amount of information to allow system to discriminate between these two actions, resulting in ambiguity. To achieve a high level of accuracy, the machine needs to seek additional information before making a decision. Asking the user for clarification is a clear and often the best way to reduce this uncertainty. The figure below provides a general schematic of how this can be achieved. It takes the form of a clarification loop, where the performance objective is to disambiguate the mapping from user intent to a single action in as few loop iterations as possible (following the belief that fewer steps mean a lower cognitive load and thus a better user experience).

In the following sections, we will introduce and explore ideas on how each of these four steps of the clarification loop can be implemented.

![schematic of system structure](./images/schematic_of_system_structure.png)

## 1. Probability distribution over N actions

Number of actions `N` is unknown aprioriy for a general system. Thus a solution needs to be able to accomodate varying `N`number (a simple classification over N actions with calibrated logits deosn't satisfy this requirement). A potential solution could involve a contrastive learning (or metric learning) between `intent` and `action` where the labels are generated in a binary fashion `can this intent be fulfiled with a given action?`. In principle, the more suitable the action, the smaller the cosine distance between its embedding and that of the user's prompt. Out of the shelf embedding models, trained to generate semantic latent representation of language, can be used as well, however this will be limited by the amount of noise introduced by semantic similarities between words and sentences, which is not equivalent to the original question `can this action fulfil user's request?`. Contrastive learning where we evaluate score for one action at a time has also the limitation that it misses out on the information of the context of other avialbale actions in the set - we believe this will only have a minor effect.

![schematic of probability distribtuion over N actions](./images/schematic_probability_distribution_over_N_actions.png)

Assumptions:

- we assume thatthere is a finite set of N actions the system can perform.
- there is at least one action that satisfies user's intent.

## 2. Is the intent -> action mapping clear?

descriptiuon to be added

## 3. Claryfing question

descriptiuon to be added

## 4. Update user prompt

This is best done with a simple LLM prompt

```
Here is my original request: {intent}
Here is the follow up question you asked: {question}
Here is my answer: {answer}

Can you integrate my answer into my original request which would make the claryfing question unnecesary?
Output just the modified original request. New original request:
```

## Example

#### Users intent and set of actions

```
intent = "I want to contact Mike"
actions = [
    "Open a new document in Microsoft Word",
    "Browse the latest news on a news website",
    ...
    "Send an email",  # relevant action
    "Send a message"  # relevant action
]
```

#### 1. Generate probability dsitribution

Only "send an email" and "send a message" are plausible, around 50% each. All other options are not fulfiling the request.

#### 2. Is the intent -> action mapping clear?

No.

#### 3. Claryfing question

System: "Do yuou want to contact Mike via email or message?"
Answer: "email"

#### 4. Update user prompt

Old prompt: "I want to contact Mike"
New prompt: "I want to contact Mike via email"

##### End

On another pass, thorugh the loop the mapping is clear
Returned action: `"Send an email"`

Commit message:

updated readme with motivation section

README.md, after:

# User Intent resolution via maximal entropy minimisation

Note: Current implementation in the `main.py` involves the simples solution to each module below i could think of. The solution i envisioned consists of more complex modules and I will be updating them itteratively.

## Objective

Given a prompt to an AI agent, "Can you contact Mike?" the action the agent should take—"contact via email" or "contact via WhatsApp"—is unclear. Such a user prompt contains an insufficient amount of information to allow system to discriminate between these two actions, resulting in ambiguity. To achieve a high level of accuracy, the machine needs to seek additional information before making a decision. Asking the user for clarification is a clear and often the best way to reduce this uncertainty. The figure below provides a general schematic of how this can be achieved. It takes the form of a clarification loop, where the performance objective is to disambiguate the mapping from user intent to a single action in as few loop iterations as possible (following the belief that fewer steps mean a lower cognitive load and thus a better user experience).

In the following sections, we will introduce and explore ideas on how each of these four steps of the clarification loop can be implemented.

![schematic of system structure](./images/schematic_of_system_structure.png)

## Motivation

> Why not just perform a single step LLM prompt, where both intent and actions are added to the prompt context?

- This may work with 100 or 1000 actions, but what when we have +10,000 actions or +100,000 actions? Will LLM be aware about all ambiguities between intent and the set of actions? Can we trust that the structure for modelling probability of mapping `intent -> action` will happen implicitly?
- How much trust do we have in LLMs performance? Can we introduce enough inductive bias about selection process into the prompt to warrant enough clarifyign questions to achieve X% confidence that the final proposed action is the right match for users intent?
- What when the set of actions is not an unstructured list, but comes as a tree or a graph? (i.e. DOM of a website). Should we flatten the tree for inference with LLM? or conduct action inference at every page of the DOM tree? Wouldn't search through the tree be more optimal?
- Cost. Searching a datastructure of embeddings with a cheap embedding model is almost free, while cost of LLM inference scales linearly with number of actions in the set.

## 1. Probability distribution over N actions

Number of actions `N` is unknown aprioriy for a general system. Thus a solution needs to be able to accomodate varying `N`number (a simple classification over N actions with calibrated logits deosn't satisfy this requirement). A potential solution could involve a contrastive learning (or metric learning) between `intent` and `action` where the labels are generated in a binary fashion `can this intent be fulfiled with a given action?`. In principle, the more suitable the action, the smaller the cosine distance between its embedding and that of the user's prompt. Out of the shelf embedding models, trained to generate semantic latent representation of language, can be used as well, however this will be limited by the amount of noise introduced by semantic similarities between words and sentences, which is not equivalent to the original question `can this action fulfil user's request?`. Contrastive learning where we evaluate score for one action at a time has also the limitation that it misses out on the information of the context of other avialbale actions in the set - we believe this will only have a minor effect.

![schematic of probability distribtuion over N actions](./images/schematic_probability_distribution_over_N_actions.png)

Assumptions:

- we assume thatthere is a finite set of N actions the system can perform.
- there is at least one action that satisfies user's intent.

## 2. Is the intent -> action mapping clear?

descriptiuon to be added

## 3. Claryfing question

descriptiuon to be added

## 4. Update user prompt

This is best done with a simple LLM prompt

```
Here is my original request: {intent}
Here is the follow up question you asked: {question}
Here is my answer: {answer}

Can you integrate my answer into my original request which would make the claryfing question unnecesary?
Output just the modified original request. New original request:
```

## Example

#### Users intent and set of actions

```
intent = "I want to contact Mike"
actions = [
    "Open a new document in Microsoft Word",
    "Browse the latest news on a news website",
    ...
    "Send an email",  # relevant action
    "Send a message"  # relevant action
]
```

#### 1. Generate probability dsitribution

Only "send an email" and "send a message" are plausible, around 50% each. All other options are not fulfiling the request.

#### 2. Is the intent -> action mapping clear?

No.

#### 3. Claryfing question

System: "Do yuou want to contact Mike via email or message?"
Answer: "email"

#### 4. Update user prompt

Old prompt: "I want to contact Mike"
New prompt: "I want to contact Mike via email"

##### End

On another pass, thorugh the loop the mapping is clear
Returned action: `"Send an email"`
